Update reference documentation (add data model and GeoPackage) (#310)
Open-Telecoms-Data/open-fibre-data-standard: docs/reference/publication_formats/json/network_schema.md

# Network schema

> The network schema provides the authoritative definition of the structure of a network object, the meaning of each property, and the rules that must be followed to represent the OFDS data model as JSON data. The schema is used to validate the structure and format of OFDS JSON data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network schema provides the authoritative definition of the structure of a network object, the meaning of each property, and the rules that must be followed to publish OFDS conformant JSON data. The schema is used to validate the structure and format of OFDS JSON data.
```

Author: I'll update once we agree on wording in https://github.com/Open-Telecoms-Data/open-fibre-data-standard/pull/310#discussion_r2702842568

Author: Updating to reflect the wording used on the GeoPackage page:

```suggestion
The network schema provides the authoritative definition of the structure of a network object, the meaning of each property, and the rules that must be followed to publish, store or exchange data that conforms to the OFDS data model as JSON data. The schema is used to validate the structure and format of OFDS JSON data.
```

```{note}

Use the canonical schema URL to make sure that your software, documentation or other resources refer to the specific version of the schema with which they were tested. The canonical URL for version 0.3.0 is:

[https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Open-Telecoms-Data/open-fibre-data-standard/0\_\_3\_\_0/schema/network-schema.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Open-Telecoms-Data/open-fibre-data-standard/0__3__0/schema/network-schema.json)

```

This page presents the schema in an [interactive browser](#browser) and in [reference tables](#reference-tables) with additional information in paragraphs. You can also download the canonical version of the schema as [JSON Schema](../../../../schema/network-schema.json) or download it as a [CSV spreadsheet](../../../../schema/network-schema.csv).

```{note}
   If any conflicts are found between the text on this page and the text within the schema, the text within the schema takes precedence.
```

## Browser

Click on schema elements to expand the tree, or use the '+' icon to expand all elements. Use { } to view the underlying schema for any section. Required properties are indicated in **bold**.

> <script src="../../_static/docson/widget.js" data-schema="../../../network-schema.json"></script>

Reviewer: These pathways need to be updated.

Author: Fixed in eb82731abc82c1af0605514823eaffc213dc60d6

## Reference tables

This section presents each property in the schema in tables with additional information in paragraphs. Required properties are indicated in the **Required** column. For properties that reference sub-schemas, a link is provided to a table with details of the sub-schema.

### Network

The top-level object in the network schema is a network, defined as:

```{jsoninclude-quote} ../../../../schema/network-schema.json
:jsonpointer: /description
```

A network has the following properties:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Schema

```{jsonschema} ../../../../schema/network-schema.json

> :collapse: nodes,spans,phases,organisations,contracts,links

Reviewer: Consider collapsing 'publisher/identifier' too, and adding an 'identifier' table. (At the moment, there is an 'identifier' link which doesn't work and will just confuse people.)

Same for 'coordinate Reference System'.

Author: Ah, good spot. Fixed in 3abb35fde693f3419d6053bc9c5ddacd541eff61.

One of the aims of this PR was to reduce the legnth of the JSON format reference page, so rather than adding subheadings for Identifier and CRS, I've gone with excluding the parent objects so those links no longer appear.
